[MUSIC]
In this video we're gonna add a constraint
to our camera so that when our player
runs to the edge of the screen,
the camera doesn't follow the player.
You can't see what's off the screen or
the ugly mess we've got off
the side of our screen.
But as the player runs to the other side,
getting past the dead zone,
the camera continues to follow
until they bump to the end again.
So let's jump in and
put some constraints on our camera.
So the problem we have at the moment,
is that we can see in our game,
we can see the down below where our
character is, we can see up above.
We can see all of these areas of our
screen that we don't necessarily want
the player to be able to
see this stuff down below.
Also, as the player gets to the edge
of our world, say this is the edge of
the world, we don't want to have to
build out all this content over here.
We want that to feel like
the edge of the world,
so we want the camera to allow
the player to go over here.
To do that we add constraints.
So let's scroll down on our virtual
camera that we've got down here.
Let's rename this at the moment actually,
we'll rename this to Virtual Camera.
Yeah, that'll do for the moment.
If we add more, then we'll update
the name for that, but for now,
this is our Virtual Camera,
and this is our main camera.
We scroll down to the bottom
of our Virtual Camera.
We'll see Extensions, and
Add Extensions, select that.
You're going to hold
down the mouse button,
I've messed this up a couple of times,
accidentally doing stuff.
Just clicking, that'll add whatever
the one down the bottom is,
but hold the mouse button down,
scroll up to CinemachineConfiner.
This'll add the confiner
script to our Virtual Camera.
And you can see that it's asking for
a bounding block shape, which is required.
Now to do this, we're gonna have to do a
couple of additional steps to do with our
2D physics.
So what we need is a collider that
we put somewhere in the world,
that the camera can bump into,
and say this as far as I move.
So let's have a look at our world
that we've got here at the moment.
We've got our background.
I'm gonna make a little
bit of our background,
I'm gonna say what
are the limits of our game?
What are limits of where we can
run within our game at the moment?
To do that,
I'm going to grab my tile map and
highlight my background
texture that I've got here.
And just make sure, this is where I've
seen a few people in the Q&A say,
why can't I climb up my ladder?
Or why is this, or how has that
disappeared, or where's it going?
Nearly always it's cuz the active
tile map is incorrect.
So make sure for now we're on background.
And I'm going to say,
where do I want my entire world to be?
Well, a little bit more to the left,
a little bit higher,
a little bit to the right.
So, that's gonna be my entire
level that the player can go.
And I don't want, as we can see at the
moment, I don't want at any point in time
that we can see the bits down below,
or the bits up above.
Okay, so we've got that.
Also, need to build out my
level a little bit more, so
we can actually run a bit more left and
right.
So, I'm gonna switch to foreground.
And I think this is all my
non tile rule tile stuff.
So I need to just quickly go and
create my tool,
my rule tile, world in here,
just quickly recreate this.
I hadn't done that from before,
that should all be super quick with
the rule tile, wow, look at that,
so fast, so wonderful, love it.
And then we'll go down to the end here.
That's as far as we want our player to go,
maybe even put a little bit of a wall on
the side saying,
thou shall not go past there.
And then, do the same down this way so
we can run a little bit further and
put our wall, oops,
put our wall up on the side.
I'm using this, the fill tool here,
which I find is really good to be able
to paint a lot of stuff very quickly.
Okay so we've got our foreground now,
we've got our background,
we'll put this all the way up there.
Maybe we can put a roof up here, but
we don't need to do, well, okay,
we'll do that, we'll make it a cabin roof.
Just for completion of what we're trying
to do in this particular example.
Okay, so there we go.
We've got our little enclosed level
our player can run around in.
We make sure we binded
it on the right layers.
Next thing we need to do is to
create ourselves some collision.
So, I'm gonna put this on background,
my background tile map is
where I will put this.
We need to go over and add a component.
That component will be a a collider
of 2D type, a Polygon Collider 2D.
We'll put that, you'll see this big
Polygon Collider that's been added,
the green line there,
we need to edit that.
To edit that, we click on
the Edit Collider button, underneath
Polygon Collider 2D heading there,
and we can move around these points.
I'm going to put my points just inside
my wall just here,
on the outside of the wall.
So the camera,
this is where I want the camera to go.
The camera will see this, but it won't
see anything in the outside of that.
Got one too many points here,
it's a five star, five pointed things.
So if I click, hold down Ctrl,
and then hit click again, sorry.
So, just one more time on that.
If you wanna get rid of a point,
hold down Ctrl and
then click, that gets through the point.
We'll get our other points just where
they need to be around the outside.
It doesn't need to be perfect, just needs
to be generally in where we want it to be.
Okay, that's looking pretty,
good there we have our collider, that is
going around the outside of our level.
Now we have our collider, if we jump
back over into our Virtual Camera,
scroll down, and where it says
Bounding Box Shape, 2D Collider.
Drag in the entire background layer
in there, it contains that collider.
Now it knows,
you can see this yellow line has appeared.
That the Virtual Camera now knows that
is the boundaries of where I can and
can not go.
If we try to play now, the characters
going to fall through the wall, and
I think he'll just randomly disappear.
Yep, just kind of some weird behavior
going on there because our character
is colliding with the background,
which we don't want it to do.
And the background is
colliding with itself, so
there's all this collision going on,
so we need to have a look at
our physics collisions rules.
We do that by going up to Edit >
Project Settings > Physics 2D.
And we can see down at the bottom here,
a Layer Collision Matrix.
So this is the layers that
we've set up at the moment,
and you can see we've got Default,
Transparent Effects, etc.
The only ones that we've set up
have been Ground and Climbing,
we don't have anything, any information
in here for Background or for the Player.
So that's our next step,
click back on to the Player,
and head up to Layer at the top of
your Inspector there, Add Layer.
And I'm gonna add for
my Layer 10, Player, and then for
my User Layer 11 I'm
going to add Background.
And then back over to Player, I'm gonna
change the layer to number 10 Player.
And then over to my Background tile map,
I'm gonna change that layer to, number 11,
Background.
Now we need to go back into our physics.
So, Edit > Project Settings > Physics 2D,
back down to our Matrix, and
we can see which of all of our layers is
allowed to collide with the other layers.
The first thing I'm gonna look at is
my Background here and my Player.
So I don't want this collision here,
I don't want my Player
colliding with my Background, and
we can probably leave it at that.
You know what I am gonna do,
is I'm gonna say, at this point in time,
nothing needs to collide
with the Background.
I don't see any reason that something
should bounce into the Background,
so let's just turn it all off.
We can come in later on and finesse this
a little bit more as we need to, but for
now that should be all we need
to do to have our Player and
our camera function
the way it's supposed to.
Okay, so now we have our Player,
make our game screen is a bit bigger here.
We have our Player,
actually I'll leave them both here so
we can see what's going
on with our camera.
As we run to the left, you can see that
our camera doesn't continue to move cuz
it's stopped by the Bounding Box
on the left there.
It's stopped by the collision, as we run
to to the right, we get to our dead zone.
We scroll up and
then the camera will move along and
follow us, until again, it bumps into
the end, and it doesn't go any further.
Which is a really, really cool piece
of functionality to give our world,
that feeling, that the player knows,
okay, well, this is clearly the end.
I cannot go any further there cuz
the camera has stopped moving,
which is a really,
really nice way of looking at it.
And as the final step, make sure that we
jump over into our Prefabs folder and
drag our Cameras in there and prefab that.
We should be prefabbing
everything at some point.
We'll be creating our next levels and
we need to make sure that these
are all nice prefabs ready to go.
Why not prefab our tile map?
Well, this is all data about
this particular level.
So if we prefab background, then if we
make another level where we're using
that background tile map, then we would
be overwriting this particular one.
So, we're gonna have to have a different
system for how we create our prefabs and
set up our different layers.
But for now we can leave them not
being prefab, we'll prefab our camera.
The challenge for you in this
video is to confine your camera.
Add enough sandbox game level for
your camera.
So, as I did make the sides and
the walls and the background,
add a collision to your background layer,
as we did with the Polygon Collider 2D.
And then to update your physics layer,
particularly to make sure that
the player is on a player layer, and
that the player and the background
aren't bumping into each other.
So that's your challenge,
you've probably already done it
as we're going through the video.
If not, jump in and do that now, and
I will see you in the next video.